

    Analysis
    How To Invest
    Personal Finance
    REIT Data

    About
    Media
    Charity
    Memberships
    Events
    Contact

The Fifth Person
Home / Economy / 4 Reasons Why the STI Collapsed 18.9% and Broke Below 3,000 Points
4 Reasons Why the STI Collapsed 18.9% and Broke Below 3,000 Points
By Ong Kai Kiat on August 28, 2015	

The Straits Times Index (STI) broke below the psychologically important level of 3,000 when it opened at 2,971 points on 21 August 2015. The index fell further and closed at 2,843 points the next trading day – an 18.9% drop from its peak of 3,531 points in April.

The STI has since rebounded slightly to 2,945 points but the big question on everyone’s mind is why did the STI drop so drastically?

STI

Chart: Yahoo Finance

Let’s explore what happened and look at how market optimism was built up in the first quarter, then how economic doubts surfaced in the second quarter before the crash we just witnessed in this third quarter.
First Quarter Market Optimism

2015 started highly optimistic and global economic growth seemed to gather steam early in the year. The U.S. led with excellent 2.4% growth for the full year of 2014. President Obama even boasted of this economic achievement in his State of the Union address. The Fed was talking about a June 2015 interest rate hike as unemployment numbers continued to fall and there were concerns about containing inflation.

Europe and Japan were the main spots of economic weakness but this was expected to pass soon. After all, their respective central banks were pursuing aggressive monetary easing as they modelled Ben Bernanke’s ultimately successful efforts to revive the U.S. economy.

As for China, the market was concerned that the economy only grew at 7.4% in 2014 just barely missing the 7.5% target set. It was acknowledged that growth was slowing as China’s economy reachs critical size and 7% growth was targeted for 2015. While this is considered slow growth for China, it is enviable growth for developed economies and not bad at all for the second largest economy in the world.

Singapore was expected to ride the coattails as global economic growth grew steadily with the U.S. and China leading the way and the STI rallied 4.7% from 3,370 points in January to its peak of 3,531 points in April.
Second Quarter Economic Doubts

Doubts started to creep in during the second quarter. The U.S. did not grow as much as expected and the results started to appear in May. Meanwhile, the “Grexit” crisis started to escalate and Greece defaulted on its IMF loan. The Greek prime minister called for a referendum to reject bailout conditions, raising contagion fears if Greece were to be kicked out of the Eurozone. The quarter ended with the Shanghai Composite crashing 40% from its June 12 peak.

However at that stage, things did not look entirely bad. In the U.S., unemployment continued to fall and home sales continued to rise, and Japan reported strong first-quarter growth of 3.9%. Greece would later capitulate to its creditors’ terms and conditions to a new bailout; for the time being, Europe would be saved. And the Chinese authorities would ultimately prevail in its effort to stem its stock market from falling further.

In other words, even though there was bad news in the second quarter, things were still under control overall. There was still room for reasonable expectations for recovery.
Third Quarter Assumptions Proven Wrong

The first serious hint of trouble for Singapore came when the Ministry of Trade and Industry reported that Singapore’s GDP growth weakened by 4.6% in Q2 2015 from Q1 2015.

The Monetary Authority of Singapore stepped in on 21 July 2015 to reassure investors that Q2 weakness was temporary:

MAS report

Source: Bank of International Settlements (BIS)

The MAS was not alone in its assumption that the U.S. and China would continue to lead the way towards economic growth. However, the doubts that surfaced in the second quarter were actually early hints of wider economic troubles instead of passing dark clouds.

So it is by understanding these expectations that were built up over the past seven months that we can understand the steep STI decline in August 2015.
4 Reasons for the STI Crash

    Weak U.S. Conference Board Data
    Extremely weak China Caixin Manufacturing PMI
    Renewed turmoil in Europe as Greek PM quits
    Renewed decline in oil prices due to recent report of excess inventory. Local oil refineries and oil services companies are badly hit. (Oil contributes 5% of Singapore’s GDP)

These factors put together raised fears in the markets causing the STI to finally cross below 3,000 points on August 21. The Greek crisis is nothing new so I will not discuss it here again. This may be a new development but it is essentially the same story of political instability in Europe. Oil prices have been declining since the second half of 2014. It rebounded from January to May 2015 before weakening again. So let me focus on the first two factors instead as they are relative new pieces of information.

The Conference Board data showed that U.S. growth momentum had slipped. The market expected the LEI to grow by 0.2% for July but it shrank by 0.2% instead. This shows that while the US economy is still strong, it is not as strong as expected.

Conference Board

Source: Conference Board

While the U.S. lost growth momentum for July, it is at least still growing. The Caixin Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) revealed that China’s economic performance was downright horrible.

China PMI

Source: Markit

Translated from Chinese, Chinese manufacturing fell to a record 77-month low of 47.1 points for the month of August. A reading below 50 actually means that manufacturing is shrinking. The fact that manufacturing output in the world’s factory is falling to six-year lows is sobering news.

The data was released on Friday, August 21 and the market had the entire weekend to digest the gravity of the news. When the markets opened on Monday, the Shanghai Composite Index plunged by a record 8.5% in one trading day.
The Fifth’s Perspective

After such a damaging report, the Chinese authorities might find it harder to stem the market plunge than they did the last time. Even if they ban short-selling, many stockholders would still want to sell their existing stocks pushing prices lower.

Another important takeaway is that the U.S. is no longer the strong economic pillar the world can continuously rely on as expected. The U.S. economy was described as the bright spot in the global economy by a Bloomberg poll in January 2015 and the markets believed that strong economic growth would be sustained for the full year.

However, evidence emerged in August to prove otherwise. The weak U.S. Conference Board report might have just led to a minor decline in the STI but the extremely weak Chinese PMI data gave a knock-out punch to the STI and other global indexes.

Basically the new reality is this: Japan and Europe continue to struggle with their own set of problems, China might no longer be the engine of growth, and the U.S. has lost its growth momentum for the time being.

But even if the markets continue to fall, it’s not all doom and gloom for the savvy investor. While some might want to wait on the sidelines for a while, falling markets give investors a huge opportunity pick up great stocks at bargain prices.

Maybe it’s time to start shopping?
[**New To Stock Investing? Get This Quick Start Investing Manual That’ll Show You How Anyone Profit From The Stock Market- Download Quick Start Investing Manual**]
Are You 'New' To Stock Investing?

Get up to speed with this Quick-Start Manual that'll show you how to be profitable in the stock market - Written in simple English that's extremely easy to understand, yet packs plenty of valuable profit strategies every investor must know...
Download Manual
Related
2 Reasons Why I Won’t Be Buying the Straits Times Index ETF Anytime Soon
2 Reasons Why I Won’t Be Buying the Straits Times Index ETF Anytime Soon

November 16, 2015
How to Ride on Singapore’s Stellar Economic Growth With the STI ETF
How to Ride on Singapore’s Stellar Economic Growth With the STI ETF

April 28, 2015
Two great reasons why it’s now time to invest in this market
Two great reasons why it’s now time to invest in this market

May 12, 2016
Ong Kai Kiat is an avid investor. His expertise and focus is on how global macroeconomic affairs affect investment outlook and choices. He writes regularly about topics related to the economy, market outlook, ETFs and the occasional stock article.
Related Items
featured
Singapore
Straits Times Index
ticker
Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.

    Subscribe
    YouTube


        Popular
        Latest
        Comments

        How to open a brokerage account in Singapore (and choose the right broker)

        How to buy shares in Malaysia (and open a Malaysian brokerage account)

        How saving just $11 a day can make you a millionaire

        How to start investing in Singapore: A practical guide for beginners (updated 2019)

        How to buy U.S. shares in Singapore (and open a U.S. brokerage account)

        5 reasons why you should attend annual general meetings if you’re an investor

        Top 10 Singapore REITs that made you money if you invested from their IPOs (updated 2020)

        Top 5 Malaysian REITs that made you money if you invested from their IPOs (updated 2020)

        7 quick steps to pick the best dividend stocks

        Neo Group: How I made 80.7% returns in seven months

        An open letter to our readers who want to win the game of stocks

        Nominee vs personal depository account – which is better?

        Top 10 ways how billionaires actually make their money

        Why we will be rejecting ARA Asset Management’s privatization offer of $1.78 per share

        9 things I learned from the 2017 Singapore Airlines AGM

        30 years from now: how much your lifestyle will cost in 2047

        4 reasons why property may not be the best asset for retirement

        3 reasons why I love BreadTalk as an investment

        5 Important Factors You Need to Consider Before You Invest in Any REIT

        6 ways to reduce your monthly expenses… without compromising on your lifestyle

    About The Fifth Person

    The Fifth Person believes in spreading a message -- that sound investment knowledge, financial literacy, and intelligent money habits can help millions of people around the world achieve financial independence and lead better lives for themselves and their loved ones.

    Our company and the knowledge we share here is born of that vision. So take a tour around the site and read our articles. We hope that the good stuff we have here will lead to smarter, more profitable investment decisions for you and the world at large.
    Disclaimer

    This is neither a recommendation to purchase or sell any of the shares, securities or other instruments mentioned in this document or referred to; nor can this course material and/or document be treated as professional advice to buy, sell or take a position in any shares, securities or other instruments. The information contained herein is based on the study and research of the Fifth Person Pte Ltd (“the Authors”); and are merely the written opinions and ideas of the Authors, and is as such strictly for educational purposes and/or for study or research only.

    This information should not and cannot be construed as or relied on and (for all intents and purposes) does not constitute financial, investment or any other form of advice. Any investment involves the taking of substantial risks, including (but not limited to) complete loss of capital. Every investor has different strategies, risk tolerances and time frames. You are advised to perform your own independent checks, research or study; and you should contact a licensed professional before making any investment decisions.
    Tags
    ticker
    featured
    annual general meeting
    Singapore
    Malaysia
    REITs
    USA
    China
    Warren Buffett
    dividends
    interest rate
    ETFs
    inflation
    Berkshire Hathaway
    StarHub
    Singtel
    Alibaba
    BreadTalk
    Hong Kong
    S&P 500
    retirement
    Nera Telecommunications
    The Investment Quadrant
    Apple
    SGX
    CapitaLand Mall Trust
    deep value investing
    Straits Times Index
    CapitaLand Commercial Trust
    bonds
    Japan
    CPF
    Benjamin Graham
    Thailand
    Yahoo
    IPO
    Keppel Corporation
    Frasers Commercial Trust
    Mapletree Logistics Trust
    Wilmar International

Copyright © 2020 The Fifth Person. All rights reserved.

    Terms of Service
    Privacy Policy
    Disclaimer



