Skip to main content 
Companies & Markets
Top of Form
Bottom of Form
* Subscribe
* Log in
You are here
Home Companies & Markets
CHARTPOINT 
Straits Times Index falls into new downtrend
Mon, Jul 02, 2018 - 5:50 AM
Jeremy Ng
Rebound in sight 
SINCE hitting a high of 3,641 points in late April 2018, the Straits Times Index (STI) has fallen around 10 per cent into a new downtrend. The bearish move was mainly sparked by the Weekly Bearish Engulfing Bar rejection off the 3,611 resistance area and the weekly Relative Strength Index (RSI) bearish divergence formation in the week ended May 4, 2018. Instead of seeing some rebound near the crucial 3,341 support area, the bears were relentless this time as they succeeded in breaking below it.
The 3,341 support area is particularly important because it has been holding the uptrend intact since November 2017, and had successfully reversed major sell-offs on three separate occasions shown by the highlighted boxes. However, as the bears break below the 3,341 support area, the sell-off exacerbated as the sell stops get taken out. Most long speculators would have hidden their stop losses just below the 3,341 support area, thus resulting in the sharper sell-off after price broke below the 3,341 area.
The immediate trend has turned bearish with the recent bearish break below the 3,341 Higher Low point. Thus, the next closely watched area for a possible rebound is the 3,200 support area. The 3,200 support area is an important point of interest as it has been a solid floor for the STI in May 2017 to September 2017 shown by the highlighted boxes. There were more bullish rejections around the 3,200 psychological round number justifying the significance of that area. Moreover, 200-week moving average also coincides with the 3,200 support area adding more weight to it.
Do note that the daily RSI is also currently in the oversold condition. RSI measures momentum. A reading above 70 represents overbought condition while a reading below 30 represents oversold condition. With the rise in the bearish momentum lately, the RSI has also hit an extreme low of 23 in late June suggesting for an imminent correction soon. The confirmation of the correction could be seen when the RSI rises back above the 30 oversold level. Historically, when the RSI dives into the oversold territory, a mean reversion higher tends to happen together with a rebound higher in the STI. Our historical study shows an average rebound of +5 per cent after the oversold RSI mean reversion signal is confirmed.
Therefore, looking at last Friday's close shows a possibility of the beginning of the oversold RSI mean reversion as the RSI managed to close at 30. Watch out for the bullish move to sustain and for a bullish follow-through above the 3,300 psychological round number for the STI to establish a near-term base. A 5 per cent recovery from here would suggest a retest of the 3,450 resistance area.

SEE ALSO
Signs indicate EURGBP at inflection point

Stay updated with
BT newsletters
Top of Form
Terms & conditions 
Bottom of Form
In summary, the STI appears to have limited downside in the near term with the current oversold condition. Moreover, the confluence of support at the 200-week moving average and 3,200 psychological round number should provide a near-term floor if the sell-off is prolonged.
* The writer is chief technical strategist, Phillip Securities Research
Disclaimer: Chartpoint is provided by Phillip Securities Research for information only, and should not be construed as investment advice
* For further reference, go to stocksBnB.com

* chartpoint
Facebook LinkedIn Twitter WhatsApp Pinterest Reddit Email 
Print 
Companies & Markets
Apple supplier Foxconn's profit down 24% in last quarter of 2019 
Sabah extends palm oil plantation shutdowns 
7 firms sign MOU to study hydrogen as green energy source for Singapore 
ComfortDelGro Taxi extends cabbie relief, to sink into red for fiscal 2020 
Asian markets resume losses as stimulus joy fades 
Qantas says pilots approve pay deal covering Sydney-London flights 
BREAKING NEWS
04:29 PM
Apple supplier Foxconn's profit down 24% in last quarter of 2019
04:25 PM
Hong Kong: Stocks end lower
04:13 PM
Malaysia limits hours for shops, restaurants, taxis in lockdown
04:08 PM
Europe: Stock markets extend losses in early deals
04:01 PM
Coffee importers stockpiling on fears over coronavirus lockdowns

subscribe to
The Business Times
CALL 6388 3838

Download Our
Apps
Stay up to date with The Business Times for
iPhone | iPad | Android 


STAY UPDATED
Choose which free BT newsletters to sign up for here, or get them all below:
Top of Form
Breakfast Brief every morning 
Daily Debrief every evening 
Garage weekly 
BT Lifestyle weekly 
Asean Business weekly 
Bottom of Form
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.


* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* PRINT ARCHIVE
* Mon
* Tue
* Wed
* Thu
* Fri
* Sat
About Us Contact Us Help Terms & Conditions SPH Websites Data Protection Policy 
SPH Digital News
© 2020 SINGAPORE PRESS HOLDINGS LTD. REGN NO. 198402668E


