
Skip to main content

    Home
    Singapore
    Politics
    Asia
    World
    Videos
    Lifestyle
    Food
        Companies & Markets Economy Banking Property Invest 
    More

    SPH Websites

Asia stocks, US futures slide despite Fed rate cut; STI opens down 3.3%
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the closing bell, on March 13, 2020.
Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the closing bell, on March 13, 2020.PHOTO: REUTERS
Published
Mar 16, 2020, 7:56 am SGT
Updated
Mar 16, 2020, 9:08 am

SYDNEY (REUTERS) - Stock markets and the US dollar fell heavily on Monday (March 16), after emergency rate cuts in the United States and New Zealand failed to allay fears about the coronavirus' economic shock.

US stock futures hit their downlimit before daybreak in Singapore. E-mini futures for the S&P 500 index dropped 4.77 per cent to their daily trading limit outside the United States.

Japan's key Nikkei index opened higher but immediately dropped lower as investors waited for the results of an emergency policy meeting at the Bank of Japan at 12pm in Tokyo (11am Singapore time). 

The Nikkei lost 1.3 per cent, Australia's benchmark stock index was down 5.4 per cent, off an earlier 7 per cent loss. South Korea's Kospi index opened down 1.6 per cent.

Singapore's shares sank on opening, with the Straits Times Index plunging 86.06 points or 3.3 per cent to 2,547.94 as of 9:03am.

The US dollar sank more than 2 per cent against the yen, while US crude fell 5 per cent to under US$30 per barrel.

The US Federal Reserve slashed interest rates by 100 basis points on Sunday to a target range of 0 per cent to 0.25 per cent. It said it would expand its balance sheet by at least US$700 billion (S$989.6 billion) in coming weeks.

"(The) market is wondering what the Fed knows that the rest of us don't," said Phil Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Hermes in New York.

"Is Covid-19 an even bigger deal than we think?"

New Zealand's central bank also slashed interest rates by 75 basis points, sinking the country's currency, as it prepared for a "significant" hit to the economy.

US Treasuries futures jumped more than a full point.

Lockdowns and travel bans spread across the globe over the weekend, affecting tens of millions of people.

"(The Fed) must really be scared. To do that in one fell swoop is really quite shocking," said Robert Pavlik, chief investment strategist at Slatestone Wealth LLC in New York.

"They pulled out whatever weapons they had and my sense is I think it may help initially but I don't think it goes much further because this is still a developing issue. They used up basically all their ammunition and we're down to sticks and stones."
Related Story
Coronavirus microsite: Get latest updates, videos and graphics
Related Story
Fed slashes rates to near zero, rolls out massive stimulus in emergency coronavirus move

Five other central banks also cut pricing on their swap lines to make it easier to provide dollars to their financial institutions facing stress in credit markets.

The swap lines were set up by the Fed, the Bank of Canada, European Central Bank, Bank of England, Bank of Japan and Swiss National Bank in the financial crisis. They also agreed to offer three-month credit in US dollars on a regular basis and at a rate cheaper than usual.

The move was designed to bring down the price banks and companies pay to access US dollars, which has surged in recent weeks as the pandemic spooked investors.

US President Donald Trump called the move "terrific" and "very good news."

Along with the New Zealand cut, and Australia's central bank poured US$3.6 billion in liquidity into Australia's financial system.

"Central banks around the world continue to react with emergency interest rate cuts to assist with the shock to demand arising from the spread of the COVID-19 virus, with necessary public health containment efforts coming at a substantial economic cost," NAB chief economist Alan Oster.

"Central banks are also appropriately providing additional liquidity to financial systems."
Related Story
Coronavirus: Trump says Fed not 'aggressive' enough
Related Story
Coronavirus: US Fed ramps up cash injections to keep market gears grinding

In currency markets, the dollar dropped 1.7 per cent on the Japanese yen to 106.01, while the euro climbed 0.5 per cent to US$1.1168.

The risk-sensitive Australian dollar fell 0.25 per cent to US$0.6182 while the New Zealand dollar slipped 0.1 per cent to US$0.6048. Oil prices fell about 5 per cent and gold rose.

Brent crude dropped US$1.80 to US$32.03 per barrel.
Related Stories: 
Bars, cinemas and all other entertainment outlets will be closed from 11.59pm on March 26 till April 30, 2020.
Coronavirus: S'pore to close all entertainment venues, gatherings outside work and school limited to 10 people
The National Centre for Infectious Diseases at Tan Tock Seng Hospital. The Ministry of Health announced 49 new Covid-19 cases on March 24, 2020.
49 new coronavirus cases in Singapore, of which 32 are from overseas
Travellers and visitors at Changi Airport Terminal 2 on March 24, 2020.
S'pore residents who continue to travel abroad will pay full hospital charges if warded for coronavirus
Inside Italy's coronavirus hospital
The school in Woodlands has 4,000 students and is currently on a spring break that began on March 21 and will last until March 29, 2020.
Coronavirus: 6 parents of international school students test positive; schools switch to remote learning
The pre-school at Block 126 Fengshan is closed for thorough cleaning and disinfection of its premises, as an added precautionary measure.
Coronavirus: ECDA orders Fengshan PCF Sparkletots centre to close for 2 weeks after teacher tests positive
Workers in protective suits spraying disinfectant along the alleys of Chatuchak market in Bangkok, on March 23, 2020.
Thailand to invoke emergency decree as coronavirus cases soar
FairPrice said that members of the Pioneer Generation should present their Pioneer Generation card to shop during the priority shopping hour.
Coronavirus: Seniors, vulnerable groups to get own priority shopping hours at NTUC FairPrice, Cold Storage and Giant supermarkets
Medical staff wave toward reporters while entering Dongsan Hospital in Daegu, South Korea, on March 24, 2020.
Coronavirus: How South Korea flattened the curve
A packet of Nivaquine, tablets containing chloroquine, in Marseille, France, on Feb 26, 2020.
Arizona man dies after taking chloroquine for coronavirus
A photo taken on March 18, 2020, shows residents lining up to pick up pork which was delivered to their quarantined compound in Wuhan.
Despite official figures, Wuhan continues to find new asymptomatic coronavirus cases daily

Have a question on the coronavirus outbreak? E-mail us at askst@sph.com.sg

To get alerts and updates, follow us on Telegram.
Topics: 

    STOCK MARKETUS FEDERAL RESERVECORONAVIRUSINTEREST RATES

Subscribe to The Straits Times
call 6388-3838 or click here
Available for
iPhones and iPads
Available in
Google Play
Back to the top

    Singapore
    Politics
    Asia

    World
    Videos
    Multimedia

    Lifestyle
    Food
    Forum

    Opinion
    Business
    Sport

    Tech
    Games

Follow ST
The Straits Times
Terms & Conditions
Data Protection Policy
Need help? Reach us here.
Advertise with us

SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2020 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn. No. 198402868E. All rights reserved
